for the first time a multi-wavelength
three-dimensional reconstruction of a
supernova remnant has been created this
stunning visualization of Cassiopeia A
or cast a the result of an explosion
approximately 330 years ago uses x-ray
data from Chandra infrared data from
Spitzer and pre-existing ground-based
optical data it begins with an artist's
rendition of the neutron star previously
detected by Chandra the green region is
mostly iron observed in x-rays the
yellow region is a combination of argon
and silicon seen in x-rays optical and
infrared including jets of silicon plus
outer debris seen in the optical the red
region is cold debris seen in the
infrared finally the blue reveals the
outer blast wave most prominently
detected in x-rays Cassiopeia A is a
supernova remnant found embedded in the
constellation that bears its name known
as the Queen in Greek mythology along
with virtually all modern telescopes the
Chandra x-ray Observatory has devoted a
great deal of time to examine this
aftermath of an exploded star the latest
results from Chandra reveal new details
about the neutron star which is the
ultra-dense core of the star that
exploded
for the first time astronomers who
determined that this stellar nub is an
incredibly thin atmosphere of carbon on
its surface this is an important clue in
deducing the true nature of this
mysterious source which lies at the
center of one of astronomy's most famous
objects
you